# 6.3 JAWS Cursor

The JAWS cursor acts just like the mouse pointer. It can go anywhere the
mouse pointer can go. In fact, the mouse pointer accompanies the JAWS
cursor as you move it around the screen. The JAWS cursor is not limited
to any specific boundaries and you can use the same navigation
keystrokes as you can when the PC cursor is active.

There are some things you should know before you start moving the JAWS
cursor.

First, since the JAWS cursor acts as the mouse pointer, you may find
that tool tips are opened as the JAWS cursor moves across certain areas
of the screen.

You may also find that other types of pop up information appear as the
JAWS cursor is moved. The Windows operating system automatically
performs these actions or events. You have no control over when these
actions or events occur.

You may find that you are using the JAWS cursor to activate a specific
button on the screen. You may not want to move the JAWS cursor from that
location to read another area of the screen.

Moving the JAWS cursor to read another area of the screen forces you to
move the JAWS cursor back to that button after your script finishes.
Before you use the JAWS cursor, you can determine if it is the best
cursor for the job by answering the following question:

Do you need to perform any mouse actions i.e. left click, on the item?

If you answered \"Yes\" to the question above, then you should use the
JAWS cursor. If you answered \"No\" to the question, then the JAWS
cursor is not the best cursor to use.

## Activating the JAWS Cursor

You activate the JAWS cursor using the built-in function, JAWSCursor.
This function activates the JAWS cursor regardless of its location
within your system. When you use the JAWSCursor function, the JAWS
cursor is activated just as if you pressed **NUM PAD MINUS** from your
keyboard.

Â 

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- -------------------------------------------------
  [Back](javascript:window.history.go(-1);){accesskey="b"}      [Next](06-4_InvisibleCursor.htm){accesskey="x"}
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- -------------------------------------------------
