# Definition of Terms

We will be using a variety of new terms in this manual to describe
scripts and functions along with their uses. Terms are listed below
along with their meaning. You will find more detailed information about
these terms as they are introduced in this manual.

## Built-in Function

Built-in functions are functions created by the developers at Freedom
Scientific. They are used as building blocks for your scripts and
functions. Although built-in functions can be used anywhere, they cannot
be modified.

## Call

The term \'call\' is used whenever a function is performed from within a
script or another function.\

## Compile

The term \'compile\' refers to the action of converting the scripts
contained within your script file into a language that can be understood
by your computer.\

## Constant

A \'constant\' is a name you give to a hard-to-remember numeric value or
sequence of characters. Constants are not changed during the execution
of your script or function and are typically defined in a JAWS script
header file. You use constants in place of hard-to-remember values in
your scripts and functions.\

## Event Function

Event functions have been created by developers at Freedom Scientific
and are triggered by various Windows events. Examples of events that
trigger event functions are when the system focus changes or when new
text is displayed on the screen. Event functions can be modified or
customized for your own use but you cannot create new event functions.
You can find all the event functions in the Default.jss script file.

## Function

A \'function\' is also a series of statements that performs a given
task. Functions are not activated by a keystroke. Functions are called
by scripts or other functions.\

## Key Words

\'Key words\' are words that are reserved for use by the scripting
language. Some of the key words used in the scripting language are
Script, EndScript, If, EndIf, While, and EndWhile. See [Appendix A: Key
Words](Appendix_A.htm) for a complete list of the key words used in the
scripting language.\

## Parameter

A \'parameter\' is a piece of information that is passed to a function.
The function uses the parameter to process its task.\

## Return

A \'return\' is a piece of information a function sends back to a script
or function from which it is called.\

## Script

A \'script\' is a series of statements that performs a given task. The
script is normally activated by a keystroke.\

## Script File

A \'script file\' is a collection of scripts, functions, and variable
declarations with the file extension of .jss for JAWS script source.\

## Statement

A \'statement\' is a series of words used within your script that
performs an action or group of actions. For example, the following block
of code is considered to be a statement:

If A \> B Then

## User-defined Function

User-defined functions are functions created by individual script
writers. User-defined functions can be modified and you can create as
many as you need. You will find many examples of user-defined functions
in the default JAWS script files.

## Variable

A \'variable\' is an entity that holds a value. Unlike a constant, the
value of a variable can be modified by your script or function during
its execution.

## Window

A predefined rectangular area on the screen that can be identified by
unique characteristics. Windows usually contain text, graphics, or
various types of controls used by an application.

Â 

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- ----------------------------------------------------
  [Back](javascript:window.history.go(-1);){accesskey="b"}      [Next](02-0_TheKeyboardManager.htm){accesskey="x"}
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- ----------------------------------------------------
