# 5.5 Inserting Functions

You can insert both built-in and user-defined functions into the body of
your scripts and functions. You can eliminate any spelling and syntax
errors when you use this method to add these functions.

## Activating the Insert Function Dialog

You can choose the Insert Function option from the Script menu or press
**CTRL+I** to activate the Insert Function dialog.

**Note:** You cannot activate the Insert Function dialog unless the
insertion point is within the body of a script or function.

When you activate the Insert Function dialog, the Function Name edit box
is active. The dialog box also contains a Function Name list box,
Description edit box, Function Returns edit box, and a number of
different command buttons.

## Selecting the Correct Function

You can type the name of the function you want to add to your script in
the Function Name edit box. As you type the letters of the function
name, JAWS moves the highlight to the matching name in the Function Name
list box. When a matching function name is found, JAWS speaks the
description of the function automatically.

If you have typed several letters in the Function Name edit box, but
have not quite found the correct function, you can press **TAB** to move
to the Function Name list box. This list box contains all built-in
functions along with any user-defined functions from both the default
and application script files. You can use your arrow keys to move up and
down the list. You can also use first letter navigation to move
immediately to a function that begins with a specific letter. For
example typing **S** in this list box will move the highlight to the
first function that begins with the letter **S**.

As in the Function Name edit box, JAWS speaks the description
automatically as you move through this list.

## Reviewing the Function Description

If you did not hear the entire description of the function, or would
like to review the description of the function, you can press **TAB**
until you reach the Description edit box. JAWS retrieves the description
for functions built into JAWS from the documentation file for built-in
functions, Builtin.jsd. For user-defined functions, JAWS retrieves the
description from the appropriate application specific documentation
file. You can use your arrow keys along with any of the other cursor
navigation keys to read the information contained in this edit box.

## Accepting the Function

After you have chosen the desired function, you can activate the Next
button to continue inserting the function. You can activate this button
by either pressing **TAB** until you reach the button and then press
**SPACEBAR** or press **ENTER** while either the Function Name edit box
or Function Name list box is active. If you move to and activate the
Finish button, then the function is inserted directly into your script
or function. However, you will not be prompted for any parameters that
the function may require.

## Adding Parameters

After you activate the Next button, the Script Manager prompts you for
any parameters required by the function. The Parameter 1 edit box is
active and the Script Manager reads the description of the parameter
automatically. Like the description of the function, the Script Manager
retrieves the parameter description from the appropriate documentation
file.

You can choose to type in the value of the parameter, an appropriate
variable type such as a string or integer, or insert a function whose
return value will act as the parameter. If you choose to insert a
function in the Parameter edit box, then you can activate the Insert
Function button by pressing **ALT+I**. This action displays a second
Insert Function dialog. You can select the function in the same manner
as you did for the initial function.

You may find that some functions only require one parameter while others
may require more. You can add the subsequent parameters in the same
manner as you did the first. When you enter the last parameter, activate
the Finish button to complete the insertion of the function. You need
only to press **ENTER** from the last parameter edit box to activate
this button. You can also press **TAB** to move to the button followed
by **SPACEBAR** to activate it. In other words, the Insert Function
dialog contains both Next and Finish buttons. You use the Next button to
add the necessary parameters to the function, and you use the Finish
button to complete the insertion of the function into your script.

Â 

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- --------------------------------------------------
  [Back](javascript:window.history.go(-1);){accesskey="b"}      [Next](05-6_ChapterExercises.htm){accesskey="x"}
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- --------------------------------------------------
