# 4.3 Navigating Script Files

You can use a number of different ways to navigate through your script
file. You can navigate line by line, by script, or display a list of all
scripts and user-defined functions within the current script file.

## Navigating by Script

You can use the Next Script and Prior Script options from within the
Script menu to navigate by script. You can also press **F2** to move to
the next script and **SHIFT+F2** to move to the prior script. Each time
you press either keystroke, the insertion point is moved to the
beginning line of the appropriate script and JAWS speaks it
automatically.

When you press **F2** with the insertion point on the last script within
the current script file, a system beep sounds informing you that you
have reached the bottom of the file and have now wrapped around back to
the top of the file.

Likewise, when you press **SHIFT+F2** with the insertion point on the
first script in the current script file, a system beep sounds informing
you that you have wrapped around to the bottom of the file.

## Displaying a List of Scripts

You can display a list of all of the scripts and user-defined functions
contained within your script file. Select the Script List option from
the Script menu or press the keystroke **CTRL+L**. The Script Manager
displays the list in alphabetic order. Use your arrow keys to move up
and down through the list. You can also use first letter navigation to
move directly to a script.

After you have located the desired script, press **ENTER** to move
directly to the script or function within the script file. You should
exercise care when using this method. Once you press **ENTER** on the
desired script or function name, the Script Manager moves the insertion
point directly to the beginning line of the script or function. The
Script Manager also highlights the name of the script or function. Since
the Script Manager highlights the name, typing any characters will
replace the name of the script or function. You can press any of the
navigation keystrokes to remove the highlight.

## Using Line Numbers

You can also move directly to any line within your script file. Choose
Go To Line... from the Script menu or press **CTRL+G** to display the Go
To Line dialog. You can type the line number in the Line Number edit box
and press **ENTER** to move the insertion point to the line. The Script
Manager displays the line number along with the total number of lines in
the script file in the status bar at the bottom of the application
window.

Â 

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------------------------
  [Back](javascript:window.history.go(-1);){accesskey="b"}      [Next](04-4_FindingAndReplacingText.htm){accesskey="x"}
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------------------------
