# 2.5 Finding Keystrokes

You can use the Keyboard Manager to search for existing keystrokes.
Before you write a script, you can search the application key map file
to determine if the keystroke you have chosen for the new script is
already assigned. If the application for which you are customizing JAWS
does not have a key map file, then you can be sure the keystroke does
not exist in the application key map file. However, the keystroke may
exist in the default file so it is a good idea to check there as well.

The right hand pane of the manager must be active to search for a
specific keystroke in the current key map file. You can either choose
Find Keystroke... in the Action menu or press **CTRL+F** to display the
Find Keystroke dialog. When the Keyboard Manager displays the Find
Keystroke dialog, the Search for Key edit box is active. Press the
keystroke for which you are searching. JAWS echoes the keystroke after
you press it. Once you have entered the keystroke, press **TAB** to move
to the group of radio buttons that allows you to search in the active or
default key map file. If you do not change this option, the Keyboard
Manager carries out the search in the active file. Press **ENTER** on
the set of radio buttons or activate the Ok button by pressing
**SPACEBAR** to begin the search.

When the Keyboard Manager finds the keystroke, the script name
associated with the keystroke is selected. JAWS automatically speaks the
highlighted information. The Keyboard Manager displays the Keystroke Not
Found dialog when the keystroke is not found.

Â 

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- --------------------------------------------------------------
  [Back](javascript:window.history.go(-1);){accesskey="b"}      [Next](02-6_ReviewingScriptDocumentation.htm){accesskey="x"}
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- --------------------------------------------------------------
