# 2.4 Keyboard Manager, Right Hand Pane

The right hand pane of the Keyboard Manager presents current key map
file information in four columns. The columns of information are:

- Script name
- Keystroke
- Key map file name
- Key map section

You can use your **UP** and **DOWN ARROW** keys to move through the
columns of information. As in the left hand pane, you can also use first
letter navigation to move to the first script name that begins with the
letter you have typed.

## Script Name

The first column of information contains the script name. When you press
the associated keystroke, this is the script that is activated. The
actual script is contained within the corresponding script file with the
same name as the selected key map file whose contents you are reviewing.
Examples of script names include AdjustJAWSOptions, SaySystemTime, and
SayCharacter.

## Keystroke

The second column of information contains the keystroke assignment that
activates the script when the command is pressed. As you move up or down
the list of information, you may notice some script names that do not
have keystroke assignments. In these cases, the Keyboard Manager
displays \"none.\" This indicates that either a keystroke assignment was
never made, the script is used in conjunction with a Braille display and
you do not have a Braille display, or the script was left over from a
previous version of JAWS and is no longer used. Examples of keystrokes
include: **JAWS Key+V**, **JAWS Key+F12**, and **JAWS Key+NUM PAD 5**.

## Key Map File Name

The third column of information contains the name of the key map file in
which the keystroke assignment is stored. When a keystroke assignment is
located in the default key map file, then the Keyboard Manager displays
\"Default\" in this column. The Keyboard Manager displays the
application key map file name if the keystroke assignment is specific to
that application.

## Key Map Section Name

The fourth and final column of information contains the key map section.
This is the section of the key map file in which the keystroke
assignment is stored. When this column displays \"common,\" then the
keystroke assignment is available in both the desktop and laptop
keyboard layouts. In cases where this column displays \"desktop,\" then
the keystroke assignment is only available when you are using the
desktop keyboard layout. When this column displays \"laptop,\" then the
keystroke is only available when you are using the laptop keyboard
layout. See [2.7 Adding
Keystrokes](02-7_AddingChangingAndRemovingKeystrokes.htm#add) for more
information on assigning keystrokes to specific keyboard layouts.

Â 

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------------------
  [Back](javascript:window.history.go(-1);){accesskey="b"}      [Next](02-5_FindingKeystrokes.htm){accesskey="x"}
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------------------
