# 4.5 Viewing Information

You can view two types of information within the current script file.
You can view script and function information as well as display key word
help for any script or function within the current script file.

## []{#view}Viewing Script Information

You can view documentation for any script or function within the current
script file. The Script Information dialog is identical to the New
Script dialog discussed in 5.2 The New Script Dialog. First, move the
insertion point to an individual script or function. You can use the
Next Script, Prior Script, or Script List actions to move to the desired
script or function. Any of the three navigation methods moves the
insertion point to the beginning line of the script or function. Press
**DOWN ARROW** twice to move into the body of the script or function.
This also removes the highlight from the name of the script or function.

To view the documentation, choose the Documentation option from the View
menu or press **CTRL+D**. Using either action displays the Script
Information multipage dialog. The first page of this dialog, General,
displays general information about the script or function. The
information shown in the Script Information dialog changes depending on
whether you are viewing script or function information. When you move to
a script, the following information is shown:

- Script Name
- Can be Attached to Key check box
- Synopsis
- Description
- Category
- Keystroke Assignment

When you select a function, the Script Information dialog displays the
following information:

- Function Name
- Can be Attached to Key check box
- Synopsis
- Description
- Category
- Return Type
- Return Description

The Parameters page displays any parameters used by the selected
function. You can view a list of existing parameters on this page along
with their descriptions.

You can find more information about both pages of the Script Information
dialog in 5.2 The New Script Dialog. After you are finished viewing the
script information, press **ESC** to close the dialog.

## Key Word Help

Within the Script Manager, you can get key word help. Key word help is
available for scripts and all three types of functions contained within
the current script file. To view key word help, move the insertion point
to the desired script or function name and press **SHIFT+F1**. The
Script Manager displays the Key Word Help dialog containing specific
information on the script or function.

When you view key word help for a script or user-defined function, the
information shown is taken from the appropriate documentation file. For
example when you view key word help from within the script file for
Microsoft Word, Microsoft Word.jss, The Script Manager retrieves the
documentation for all scripts and user-defined functions from the
Microsoft Word.jsd file.

If you are viewing key word help for a built-in function, the Script
Manager retrieves that information from the builtin.jsd documentation
file. The builtin.jsd file contains information for all built-in
functions within the JAWS scripting language. After you have reviewed
the key word help information, press **ESC** to close the Key Word Help
dialog.

Â 

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- --------------------------------------------------
  [Back](javascript:window.history.go(-1);){accesskey="b"}      [Next](04-6_ChapterExercises.htm){accesskey="x"}
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -- --------------------------------------------------
