# Braille and Text Viewer

The braille and text viewer is a UI that you can use to show output
intended for the braille display, or the actual braille display output
if a display is attached. You can also show the text at the current
point of interest for magnification users. You can choose to show the
Braille dots view and the Text view simultaneously, or only one of them
at a time.

The Braille viewer output shows a single line of text or dot patterns
representing the current braille output, or what the output would be
without a braille display attached. The braille viewer is useful for a
sighted person to see exactly what is being shown on the braille
display, or for a sighted script developer with no braille display to
see what would be sent to the display. You can use some of the scripts
and functions in this section to toggle the braille viewer on or off,
and to pan the braille cursor or move it from line to line.

The Text viewer can show a single line of text representing the focus,
mouse location, or current control. This can be useful for keeping the
text representing the current user activity in a fixed location while
also maintaining a consistent appearance. As with the Braille viewer
scripts and functions, you can use the scripts and functions in this
section to toggle the text viewer on or off. And, if there is more text
at the point of interest than can be shown at one time in the Text
viewer, functions are available for panning the view of the text left or
right.

For a complete listing of Braille and Text Viewer scripts and functions,
see the topics in this category book of the Reference Guide.
