# The Query File

When you use the Internet to search for a term on a Website that accepts
searches, the Website generates a page containing search results.
Depending on the search engine the site utilizes, this mayh or may not
be data embedded in the site\'s HTML or XML code. You can usually tell
if the site was created dynamically and is searchable by an external
tool such as Research It if the Search Results page contains the search
term sought in the URL displayed on the address bar. If you want to
utilize a tool like Research It to search a page of this type, the tool
must supply the search term and locate and return the search results to
the tool\'s user interface.

In some cases, a Website may change dynamically and automatically based
on ongoing events without any input from you. such a site can also
contain data subject to an external query. The CNN Headlines, Fox News,
and BBC top news stories are some examples. For this type of site, the
external query only needs to return to the Research It user interface
the relevant search results without you having to provide any search
terms. For this type of site, the Rule file must submit any search data
necessary for the Website search to take place, parse the search results
returned by the site, retrieve them, and report them to the JAWS virtual
Results Viewer.

The Research It JAWS feature utilizes three programming tools to locate
the specific set of relevant search results generated by your query
within all the HTML or XML code that comprises the Website in order to
return them to the JAWS virtual Results Viewer. They are:

- XQuery - a programming language specifically designed to query an XML
  data set and to locate specific data of interest. It contains the
  required functions and other tools necessary to parse and navigate an
  XML website to locate the desired data. It requires that the website
  format be XML rather than HTML.
- XQilla - an open-source implementation of XQuery that allows you to
  parse an HTML file as an XML file, thus making HTML websites
  searchable by an external tool like Research It. XQilla also contains
  a number of additional functions you may use in a query. Developers
  creating rule sets for Research It may use XQilla functions in their
  rule sets.
- XPath - an XML path language that allows you to locate specific nodes
  on an XML page. XPath is analogous to a DOS path statement that allows
  you to find a particular file or file set by specifying the series of
  nodes (i.e., subdirectories or folders) you must traverse to get to
  the target. XML and HTML files are, in effect, a series of tags
  embedded within tags embedded within other tags, etc. Embedded
  somewhere within this tag structure is the data containing the search
  results for the query from Research It. If you view an XML file as a
  tree view of parent and child tags branching out from one parent tag,
  then your goal is to locate the branch of interest, the one containing
  the desired search results, and traverse that branch of parent and
  child tags until you reach the tag containing the exact search results
  desired. Thus, an XPath statement contains a path of tags as opposed
  to a DOS path statement that contains a path of folders.

A comprehensive book on XQuery by Priscilla Walmsley (XQuery,
Sebastopol, CA: O\'Reilly Media, 2007) is available at bookshare.org for
Bookshare subscribers. For basic tutorials about XQuery, XPath, XML, and
HTML, refer to [W3Schools.com.](http://www.w3schools.com) These
tutorials provide overviews, while the book covers XQuery
comprehensively.

XQilla functions are documented at [XQilla Extension
Functions.](http://xqilla.sourceforge.net/ExtensionFunctions)

## The Research It Debugger

Once you create your own Research It rule set, you can run the debugger
to find out what errors it may contain and how you may correct them.
Bring up the debugger by pointing to your rule set files and activating
the HomeRow Utility with Insert+WindowsKey+NumpadMinus, and then
pressing Insert+WindowsKey+d. The output results show pressing the Home
in a virtual viewer window, not the regular Research It Results viewer,
so that you can examine closely what you may need to fix. Make sure to
deactivate the HomeRow Utility by toggling it off with
Insert+WindowsKey+NumpadMinus.

For a complete discussion on working with Query files, find the link for
\"Research It: Creating Rule Sets for JAWS (Word file)\" and download
the file from this link located at: [Creating Research It Rules for
JAWS.](https://support.freedomscientific.com/Content/Documents/Other/Research-It-Creating-Rule-Sets-for-JAWS.doc)
