# What\'s New

Below is the new information for the published FSDN versions referenced
by the build of JAWS where they first appear.

## JAWS 2024

JAWS 2024 introduces a new exciting feature called Face in View. This
feature allows you to get information telling you whether your face is
centered in the camera\'s view. Read about its functions in the
Reference Guide at:\
[]{#Face in View} [Face in View](./Reference_Guide/Face_in_View.html)

JAWS 2024 also introduces Split Braille - a feature that allows a
single-line Braille display to be split into two regions with a
sepearator in the middle. There are many modes for Split Braille you
might wish to explore that already ship with JAWS 2024. But you can also
customize some of these modes or perhaps even create your own for your
particular applications. See the topic area page for Split Braille at:\
[]{#Split Braille Overview} [Split Braille
Overview](SplitBrailleOverview.html)\
And see the functions you can use to customize it in the Reference Guide
book at: []{#Braille Split Mode} [Braille Split
Mode](./Reference_Guide/Braille_Split_Mode.html)

## JAWS 2023

ZoomText scripting is available for ZoomText 2023 and later. See this
new topic.\
[]{#ZoomText ZOM Scripting} [ZoomText ZOM
Scripting](ZoomTextZOMScripting.html)

A new book was added called API Tools specifically for very advanced
users familiar with the concepts of API functionality. One set of tools
for example is the FS Braille Display API book, which contains functions
related to the Freedom Scientific Braille displays. It has been
available since JAWS 8.0 Update 2. But it is now provided here to give
you more information than ever before. See this book at:\
[]{#FSAPI} [FSAPI](FSAPI.html)

## JAWS 2020

This JAWS version introduces:

A Scan cursor capability for applications that support UI automation
(UIA), including moderm Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and
Universal Windows Platform (UWP) applications.

Scripting specifically for a Web App within a browser supported by JAWS,
including a tool (formerly called HomeRow Utility). This is now called
the Script Utility. One enhancement of this tool is that the XMLDom
Browser mode allows you to inspect the element structure of a webpage in
great detail without having to write your own functions to obtain XML
information.

## JAWS 17

Another enhancement rlated to Domain-Specific Utilities, Web App
Scriptability has enhancements for you to choose when to load or not
load your custom scripts for a given Web application by adjusting your
ConfigNames.ini file.\
[Web App Scriptability](Web_App_Scriptability.html)

This also includes customizing some of the Freedom Scientific utilities,
such as the dictionary Manager, by domain for Web-based applications,
even those not specifically within a browser. See the topic at:\
[]{#Domain-Specific Utilities} [Domain-Specific
Utilities](Domain-Specific_Utilities.html)

This JAWS version also introduces a file structure to support easier
localization of JAWS message and header files for constants and
variables.

**Backward Compatibility with Prior Versions of JAWS:** You may have
customized script sets from prior versions of JAWS that you still want
to work with the current version, or that you want to enhance. There is
no way for a script binary .jsb file to recognize which version of JAWS
compiled it, and no direct method for the compiler to recognize which
version of JAWS to compile at runtime. Starting with this version of
JAWS, JAWS can employ the \"Pragma\" mechanism for you to add to your
source code where relevant so that your older script source files
compile and work well with the structure. For the localization
restructure and for how to compile older script sets, see the topic area
called\
[]{#Localization: JAWS Folder Restructure} [Localization: JAWS Folder
Restructure](Localization_JAWS_Folder_Restructure.html)

## JAWS 11

You can customize your scripts. See the details at the area topic
called:\
[Customized Quick Settings](Customized_Quick_Settings.html)
